# Customer-Churn-Prediction-in-Banking-Industry
# Naïve Bayes, K-NN, SVM, Neural network, decision tree and random forest

Banking is one of the most competitive industries; banks compete with each other and other financial institutions [1]. Retaining customers is one of the critical rules of having a growing industry. They bring money or transfer money and make it possible for a bank to grow and interact with other fund-related industries(non-Banks). In this study, data was obtained from Kaggle[2], and performance of different classification techniques (, in order to make it possible to suggest an efficient model, so we can predict if customers will leave or stay in the studied bank, with regards to all variables we have here (10 demographic and personal attributes) from a data set of 10000 customers of European banks. In this study, we will evaluate the effect of each feature. The study results found that Neural network model is the best amongst all applied models to predict churning in customers.


While banks have central role in the economy, they face a highly competitive environment, due to similar benefits offered by other markets (including other banks, or non-banks), or other factors such as improving technologies and demanding customers, and makes them vulnerable as well[3]. All these factors, leads to an attention to retain and restore customers. A lot of studies have been conducted on evaluating all factors affecting customers retention in a bank. In this study we want to evaluate factors including in Table. 1, on customer churning on our data. Using new methods of machine learning for prediction of churning customers, we intend to propose the most efficient methods amongst studied supervised machine learning classification methods (Naïve Bayes, K-NN, SVM, Neural network, decision tree and random forest), in order to take action before the bank undergoes main problem in future, and takes needed actions ahead of time. We will discuss model performance, feature selection and model selection in this report.
